The COVID‑19 pandemic, also known as the coronavirus pandemic, is an ongoing 
global pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‑19), caused by severe acute 
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS‑CoV‑2).[1] The outbreak was first 
identified in December 2019 in Wuhan, China.[4][6] The World Health Organization
declared the outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on 30 
January 2020 and a pandemic on 11 March.[7][8] As of 6 August 2020, more than 
18.7 million cases of COVID‑19 have been reported in more than 188 countries and
territories, resulting in more than 706,000 deaths; more than 11.3 million 
people have recovered.[5]

The virus is primarily spread between people during close contact,[b] most often
via small droplets produced by coughing,[c] sneezing, and talking.[9][10][12] 
The droplets usually fall to the ground or onto surfaces rather than travelling 
through air over long distances.[9][13] However, the transmission may also occur
through smaller droplets that are able to stay suspended in the air for longer 
periods of time in enclosed spaces, as typical for airborne diseases.[14] Less 
commonly, people may become infected by touching a contaminated surface and then
touching their face.[9][10] It is most contagious during the first three days 
after the onset of symptoms, although spread is possible before symptoms appear,
and from people who do not show symptoms.[9][10]

Common symptoms include fever, cough, fatigue, shortness of breath, and loss of 
sense of smell.[9][15][16] Complications may include pneumonia and acute 
respiratory distress syndrome.[17] The time from exposure to onset of symptoms 
is typically around five days but may range from two to fourteen days.[18][19] 
There is no known vaccine or specific antiviral treatment.[9] Primary treatment 
is symptomatic and supportive therapy.[20] 
